This creature is marked: "Killmsgs.txt modified 28 March 2009."
The bunny's dies uttering "rosebud"
In the throes of death the rabbit screams "KAAAAAAAAHN!"
This bunny is marked "THX-1138"
You cleave the rabbit in two, but it still only counts as one in your inventory.
You cut the hare.
You kill the wabbit. Kill the wabbit. KILL THE WABBIT!
You twist the rabbit's neck sharply.
You smash the bunny which explodes like a blood sausage.
With an uppercut you send the rabbit skyward, jump up after it, and finish it off with a 24 hit combo.
The bunny dies while surfing http://www.cymonsgames.com
You kill the animal and put it in your inventory.
You'd swear the rabbit was humming Elliot Smith's Waltz #1.
You eviscerate and incinerate the bunny.
The rabbit's head explodes from your attack.
You are drenched in a shower of blood.
The bunny, in the lounge, with the knife.
You notice all the creatures in this area have a scar on their left hind.
The rabbit is no match for your Kirk chop.
Your ginsu, is still sharp after all these kills.
The bunny drops an object with "Don't Panic" written in friendly letters.
FATALITY
You kill the rabbit, reserving time units for a snap shot.
Why was this rabbit carrying 15 gold?
You have defeated the bunny.
Another bunny for the ladder!
You etch yet another 'd' on your weapon.
You see two ears protruding from beneath your boot.
Can you smell what the player is cooking?
You resole your shoe with rabbit.
You bring the people's elbow down on the bunny.
The rabbit dies a day before finishing it's 7 day roguelike project.
This bunny's died thinking about batman.
The unfortunate death you caused prevented alchemy from turning lead to gold.
You crack the bunny like a fortune cookie. It says "You will soon find the favored."
You establish your manliness by tearing the rabbit in half.
Chaos theory says that you just screwed up the world big time.
You decimate the rabbit. In the distance you hear Olympus marvel at the raw display of power.
You scan the bunny. Its head explodes.
The rabbit is a pancake. Your argument is invalid.
The bunny crashes hard as a noob asking a girl out.
The rabbit stops, "hammer time".
cerr << getName() << endl;
The bunny dies trying to remember that x=(-b +/- sqrt(b^2 - 4*a*c)/(2*a)
Approaching you, the rabbit realizes too late that you are not its mother, you are only a snort.
A new challenger appears.
With big doe eyes, the bunny looks up at you, so you turn away and stab it behind your back.
The markings on this rabbit looks like the box art of Tooth Invaders for the Commodore64. Odd.
That bandana, those weapons! You killed a teenage mutant ninja bunny.
A thousand demons erupt from the shattered form. This rabbit was favored of another force.
Fiver?
Polyester suit? Suede shoes? This was a mercy killing.
That was the most foul, cruel, and bad tempered rodent you ever set eyes on.
You curb check the bunny.
It seems to me it lived it's life like a candle in the wind.
Like sands through the hourglass, so passed the days of its life.
RIP you wild thing!
The rabbit has left the building!
This bunny dies happy, glad to be out of a text based game.
You usher another bunny soul into bunny heaven.
The rabbit realizes that life is meaningless and promptly expires before you strike.
The bunny is psychic, but knowing its fate causes it to have a massive heart attack.
Your Kung-Fu is stronger than the bunny's. It falls quickly.
This is an ex-rabbit.
You feed the bunny poorly prepared Blowfish Sushi. One more bunny down.
This rabbit was made of some sort of velvatine cloth.
Life is cruel, but now one less bunny has to worry about it!
Excellent! More bunny ears for your necklace.
With all these rabbits feet, you'll never run out of luck!
The bunny tries to tell you a knock-knock joke. You're not in the mood.
Elmer Fudd wishes he was you.
This particular bunny rabbit has made his last contribution to the genepool.
The bunny looks for it's hole, but all it has is the one where its heart used to be.
Bunny heads, bunny heads, rolly polly bunny heads.
The bunny dies a natural death because a knife naturaly causes one to die.
The bunny spontaneously combusted. That's your story anyways.
Dead bunnies tell no tails.
The bunny fell down some stairs. Yeah.
You try to remove the batteries from the bunny, but it turns out they were lungs. Oh well, it stopped going.
You make the rabbit dead.
The bunny pines for the fjords. The bunny is no more.
The celery stalks at midnight have nothing more to fear.
The only good bunny is the one you just killed.
Only 49 more until your next level.
You finally killed the bunny that had a ridiculously complex backstory.
You load 16 Tons, what do you get? Another day older, another rabbit dead
"What bunny?" you ask as you hide the mangled corpse behind your back.
You killed the bunny that killed your father, seeking justice so that your beloved and missed parent can be at peace in the afterlife.
The rabbit's constituent parts have become disassociated.
The rabbit seems confused. You would be confused too, if you couldn't find your head.
The rabbit is beside himself. And below himself, and a bit on the wall.
The bunny is mauled by your pet Lyger.
You find a use for the useless rabbit, congratulations.
You steal the rabbit's life-saving amulet. Then you steal the rabbit's life.
You trick the rabbit into kicking a sink. Goodbye rabbit.
This "bunny" has turned out to be a cat. Oh well. It's still dead.
It has huge pointy teeth. You have a huge pointy sword. You win.
Rabbit run no more.
The bunny is too cute to be real, so you kill it.
This rabbit appears to be broken. A shame. You only mean to pet it.
WHAT YOU SAY! BUNNY HAS NO CHANCE FOR SURVIVE, MAKE ITS TIME. HA HA HA.